#summary Instructions on how to obtain GCC for Windows.
#labels Phase-Deploy,Phase-Support

= An explanation =
PEditor is a source code editor. Some might even go as far as to say it's an IDE. What it certainly isn't is a compiler.

PEditor is used to write the code, the compiler is used to turn the code into something a computer can work with.

Hence, to actually write programmes, you'll also need a compiler. I recommend GCC, because it adheres to the latest standards, it's free and easy to get.

= Instructions =
The following steps describe the procedure for downloading and installing MinGW (the name GCC goes by on Windows). If you already have GCC or some other compiler installed, skip this section.

 1. Download: [http://heanet.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/mingw/MinGW-5.1.3.exe MinGW Installer]
 1. Run it and follow the steps. When it asks you what components you wish to install, in the combobox, select custom install and make sure you have checked: MinGW Base Tools, g++ compiler and MinGW make.
 1. Complete the installation process, noting the installation path (i.e. C:\MinGW)

Now you have a compiler, all that remains is to tell PEditor about it.

= Configuring PEditor =
This is easy:

 1. Start PEditor.
 1. In the PEditor menu, click Configure compiler. The configuration dialog should pop up.
 1.  In the C Compiler box, write the installation path followed by "\bin\gcc". So if you installed in C:\MinGW, you would write C:\MinGW\bin\gcc.
 1.  In the C++ Compiler box, write the installation path followed by "\bin\g++". So if you installed in C:\MinGW, you would write C:\MinGW\bin\g++.
 1. Click done.

Congratulations, everything should be working now.